# Voting-Blockchain
Proof of concept for using blockchain to digitize the Election process

I utilized the distributed network capability of blockchain along with the aggregation associated with traditional voting. There are three network tiers, one each at the local, constituency and national level. Nodes at the local level represent the polling stations and can communicate with other nodes in the same constituency. Similarly, state level nodes would have direct connectivity to few selected local nodes based on location and can communicate with other state level nodes. The same applies for national level nodes as well. To minimize the complexity in our project, we decided to focus on local level nodes only. For our project, we implemented a two step approach to digitize the voting process. In step one, for voter registrations  we created a blockchain, called “voter registration chain” and similarly, another distinct blockchain, “voting chain”, was used to store user’s vote at the constituency level. 

For the details of each node, please refer to the presentation.

Before any election that were to to use our blockchain, a voter interesting in casting a ballot would be notified to register to vote. Once the voter was registered, a government assigned miner would add the voter’s information to a block in the voter registration chain. While doing so, the system internally assigns a unique verifier, using SHA-256 hashing, to the voter. These unique verifiers are what would be used to restrict unregistered voters from casting their vote on election day. A block is added to the voter registration chain in each of the below cases:
1.	New voter’s details are verified against the government database and if found eligible to vote, a government assigned miner would add the voter’s info to a block in the chain.
2.	Once the voter casts his/her vote on election day, another block with the user’s information and “status = voted” is added to the chain.

On election day, whenever a voter logs in to the portal to cast their vote, the system will verify the user’s eligibility to vote by checking against the voter registration chain. In the backend, if the user is already registered and user’s status is not “voted”, then the system will allow the user to cast their vote. If not, then the user will get an appropriate error message. If eligible, a block with “status = voted” will be added to the voter registration chain and user’s vote detail (with just the vote and unique verifier) will be passed on as a transaction to the second blockchain i.e. the voting chain. Even though the transaction is created on a specific constituency code, it is available to all nodes at the same constituency level, via a peer-to-peer network, for miners to mine it. A government assigned miner would mine the blocks with vote details and add them to the voting chain. The constituency nodes would periodically run a consensus resolving algorithm to stay up to date with other nodes in the same constituency. It is important to note that there are two blockchains, one which tells us if a user is authorized to vote and other which stores the contents of the user’s vote. By implementing two distinct blockchain in a multi-tiered approach, we achieve anonymity as the voting chain will only have a unique verifier, generated by SHA-256, and the vote. In the future if a user wants to verify their vote, they can do so by using their ID and name. The system will internally generate the unique verifier by passing on user details to SHA-256, and find a match in the voting chain.

For a visual representation of our blockchain process please refer to the ppt in this repo.

#Basic implementation of a blockchain is derived from https://github.com/dvf/blockchain.
#This POC was developed as part of a class project for MS IS at UW, Seattle.
#Developed with contribution from Team members - Garima, Victor, Alex, Woody and Ariel.
